---
title: How I Scan
---

# How I scan

## Introduction

This is an explanation of how I go about scanning. It works for me and my play style. It might not work for you. Feel free to use these methods in your explorations.

## Log on, what do?

Upon logging in and deciding that it's time to scan, I begin by looking for systems that need attention. The very first thing I do is a mass sig read in #Home in case there are any new signatures to scan down. If nothing needs to be scanned in #Home I start looking at systems in our chain in siggy, specifically the signature list to see if any need to be scanned down. I'll usually start with systems closest to #Home and work my way outward, ignoring any EOL or reduced/crit connections. Once I pick the system to start scanning in I begin making my way toward it. Along the way I'll do a mass sig read for every system I pass through looking for new signatures. If I find a new signature I'll take the time to scan it down before moving on.

## Scanning a System

I use the same process for any system, whether I'm the one who found it and added it to our chain, or if I'm finishing off a system that somebody else had started to scan but didn't finish.

### First entry

Immediately after jumping through a wormhole I turn around and confirm the way home is bookmarked. I fully expect to see a bookmark on the hole at least 99% of the time. But that one time it isn't marked I'll be glad to have this habit. Alway make sure you can find you way home.

The second thing I do when landing in a system, after confirming the bookmark home, is a basic dscan with my standard PVP overview setting. This will give me a quick look at how (un)friendly the system might be. I also have towers on this setting, so if a POS is in range I'll see it in addition to any ships.

Now that I know my way home is bookmarked, and I have a basic idea what might be in the system, it's time to get moving. Before the cloak from my jump runs out, I pick a random direction and start moving, engaging my cloak immediately just in case somebody was waiting on the hole to instalock me. Oh, and no probes yet.

### Is it occupied?

The fist check is for POSes. I won't go over how to scan down a POS, but I make sure that I've scanned every planet. My usual method is to warp to the sun at 100km and dscan. If I don't see a POS, or once I've accounted for all the POSes in range from the sun, I'll work my way through the planets in order until I've scanned them all. When warping to a planet I warp to the customs office at that planet at 100km. That makes sure I land far enough away to not be decloaked.

For any POS I find I confirm it's location and status and enter the information into siggy, along with a dscan of the POS if it's online. I'll also check any older POS entries in siggy to confirm they're still there and online.

As I go through each POS I look for any ships I've seen on dscan sitting inside a POS shield. If I've visited every online POS and haven't seen a ship that appears on dscan, then I know I have company in the system.

### Scan all the things!

Only after I've identified any POS in the system will I even think about launching probes. I try to find an out of the way place to do it because it leaves me uncloaked for several seconds while I allow my probe launcher to reload. I do this so I don't have to decloak later on to reload, and I'll be ready to immediately launch them the next time.

One trick I've started using is to warp to a planet furthest away from anything else (by warping to the customs office at 100km). I'll then align to a convenient bookmark, like the one I came in from. Once I'm at 3/4 speed I'll decloak, launch probes, and immediately warp to the bookmark at range. This minimizes the time I'm able to be locked. The probe launcher will almost always finish its reload while in warp, so I'll cloak back up before landing. Now that I'm safely cloaked I'll set an orbit around the wormhole so I can hear somebody jumping through, and it's time to start scanning.

To make life easy I'll scan the incoming wormhole first to determine its signature. Since I know exactly where it is (thanks to the bookmark and the "you are here" marker) I simply have to put the probes over it in a tight formation and I'll get the signature for it with one scan. I update siggy with the information and then move on.

Keep in mind that not everybody is good about updating siggy. Also, sites and wormholes can and will go away over time. I'll check the bookmarks to see if somebody has been through and bookmarked any wormholes yet. If so, and if they put the signare code in the bookmark, that saves me time as I can make sure siggy has that information without needing to touch my probes. I might warp to a hole to confirm it's still there or if I want the type so I can add that to siggy.

Scanning for me is a wash-rinse-repeat type of exercise. I look for the first signature in siggy that needs to be scanned down and start there. I scan it, do something with it (bookmark it/check the wormhole connection/etc.), and then go on with the next signature. I keep going until either I'm done with the system, or I have to leave for some reason.

### Wormholes

This is how I deal with wormholes as I find them. I try to finish scanning a system before starting on a new system, but I also want to know where every wormhole I find leads. If I find a wormhole that's EOL I'll update siggy/bookmark it but I won't jump through (e.g. "@C? EOL" or "@LS ? EOL").

1. Once the signature is at 100% I warp to it at 10km and recover probes while in flight.
2. At hole, I pull up the "show info" screen for it.
3. Mark the signature as WH in siggy (if it isn't already), select the type from the pulldown, and add the appropriate comment (e.g. "@C? ?", or "@HS ?").
4. Bookmark the hole with as much detail as I have (e.g. "@C? ? XYZ").
5. One more dscan for good measure, since I'll be decloaked for a couple of seconds just before I jump.
6. Jump through the hole.
7. On the other side, before anything else, BOOKMARK THE WORMHOLE (still cloaked from the jump).
8. If J-space, do a quick dscan, otherwise check local to get an idea how much company you may have (still cloaked from the jump).
9. Orbit the hole at 5km and immediately cloak. This puts me close enough to crash the hole if something bad starts happening, and I don't have to worry about how much time I have left on my jump cloak.
10. If it's a new J-space system, pick a name for it.
11. In siggy, update the signature in the system I just left with the connection information. This includes marking the hole as frigate sized if appropriate.
12. Update the bookmark with the connection information (pull up People&Places, open Corporate bookmarks, open the *Temporary folder, sort by date, and it should be one of the top ones).
13. Do a mass sig read for the new system into siggy.
14. Jump back to the previous system, safely launch probes, and continue scanning.
